---
layout: post
title: Semi-Supervised Learning with Competitive Infection Models
---

This paper was published in AISTAT 2018 by a post-doc student Nir Rosenfield and his former adviser Amir Globerson. 
Nir now is in Harvard and mostly working on dynamic social and behavioural data. 
If you followd the previous <a href="https://dadashkarimi.github.io/lafferty-2003/">post</a> on semi-supervised learning you would expect this post on preserving real-world randomness for predicting $f(i)$. 
Nir proposed an infection model naturally capturing this property. 
Suppose that you are living in a society where different kinds of diseases being infected by people in span of time. 

This problem setting maps into a directed graph in which each node gets the lable of the nearby nodes. 
As you might noticed laplacian is purely defined for undirected graph.
This apparently simple problem turns out to be very complicated if you want to capture the impact of the nodes take $n$ points to reach out the subject.
Let's define directed graph $G=(V,E,W)$ with seed nodes $S\in V$ and unlabeled nodes $U=V \textbackslash S$ and set $n=|V|,m=|E|,L=|Y|$. The label $y_i\in Y$ assigned to feature vector $X_i \in R^d$. 
Nir's infection model estimats:

\begin{equation}
f_{vl}(S,y) = 1 \times P[Y_{vl}=1]+0\times P[Y_{vl}=0]  = E[Y_{vl}]
\end{equation}

 but it is being computed in $N$ different iterations as discrete ongoing time steps. 
Finally they estimate this function as follows:

\begin{equation*}
\hat{f}_{vl} (S,y) = \frac{1}{N} \sum_{i=1}^{N} Y_{vl}^{i}
\end{equation*} 

so here we go. The main idea is that if we in $t=0$ we assume all the seed nodes get infected by their labels, at time $t+1$ they attemp to infect all neighbours and succeed with probability $p_{uv}$.
Let's define $\tau_v=t+1$ the infection time of node $v$ and $\rho(v)=u$ the infector of $v$. 
Let's stop here and open a paranthesis. Usually in dynamic data modeling we face with concept of incubation time. 
if:
\begin{equation*} 
\tau_{uv}=\tau_u+\delta_{uv},
\end{equation*}

node $v$ is infected by node $u$ within incubation time of $\delta_{uv}$.
Ok, let's come back to our problem.
This incubation time in basic definition of infection models has been disregarded for network analysis since poeple assume:

\begin{equation*}
\rho(v)=\operatorname*{argmin}_u \tau_{uv}
\end{equation*}

which equal to the closest infector.
So this paper offers:
\begin{equation*}
\delta_{uv}=D(\theta_{uv})= 
\begin{cases}
    1,& p_{uv}=w_{ij}\\
    \infty,              & \text{otherwise}
\end{cases}
\end{equation*}

that is equal to 1 with probability $p_{uv}$ and $\infty$ otherwise. 
That's it. I think we discussed about all details and main idea of the paper so far. 
The other thing that I would like to let you know is the graph building part. 
If you assume your graph is fully connected then your neighbours are $V\textbackslash v$ and it might tak time to run this algrithm $N$ times. 
A good solution for this is to make your graph sparse enought while it remains connected by specifing thresholds. 
In next blog post I will keep you updated about my implementation on this and my attempt to get licence for it in sklearn. 

code: <a href="https://github.com/dadashkarimi/scikit-learn/blob/master/sklearn/semi_supervised/infection_propagation.py">my latest implementation</a>

I hope you pick this article up in less than 7 minutes!

```
@inproceedings{Rosenfeld:18,
  author    = {Nir Rosenfeld and
               Amir Globerson},
  title     = {Semi-Supervised Learning with Competitive Infection Models},
  booktitle = {International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics,
               {AISTATS} 2018, 9-11 April 2018, Playa Blanca, Lanzarote, Canary Islands,
               Spain},
  pages     = {336--346},
  year      = {2018},
  crossref  = {DBLP:conf/aistats/2018},
  url       = {http://proceedings.mlr.press/v84/rosenfeld18a.html},
  timestamp = {Sun, 15 Apr 2018 20:06:04 +0200},
  biburl    = {https://dblp.org/rec/bib/conf/aistats/RosenfeldG18},
  bibsource = {dblp computer science bibliography, https://dblp.org}
}
``` 

