---
layout: post
title: No Body Can Stop Hard Working and Passionate Person
---

It's really cool story. In 2008 Iran's president put a rule that non-capital living students have 15% chance to come to Tehran and study in top schools in my country. 
I do rememmber we changed our field of interest from west of Iran to boost our chance to get into Tehran. Even though we were studying in Nodet Iran's best school and we were ranked among very top students in Iran's university enterance exam we had only 15% chance. 
I selected software engineering since it was not compettetive that time. It took months to gather money to buy a lap top since I had very limited expierience in programming and had no idea what's going on in this field. 
A friend of mine went to the third university of the country even though he was ranked 72 among more than 300,000 students. 
I do remember all my friends were top-ranked students who came from other cities than capital and I still have collaboration with them and they are really smart and positive people.
In Iran Sharif university is supposed to be the university of choice for engineering students but non of us could get into it and we started our career in University of Tehran the top-ranked university in alsmot all fields and the most historic university in Iran with smart decision as I said.
That time we were so sad since we could see other students from captial studying in Electrical Engineering which was our main interest that time. 
We accepted what happened to us and had smile on face for president that we could get into capital with smart decisions. 
I'm so happy after 10 years I see all my friends in top schools in the world including UPen, UIUC, Rice, UCLA, USC, KIT, Chicago, Maryland, Caltech, UMASS, Toronto, and Yale.
Even US president's sanction on Iranian visa in 2017 couldn't stop us to get into best universities in the world.
And I'm so happy we don't have #I-was-In-Sharif epidemy, a common epidemy among some students in Sharif University who have pre-selection on other students and schools.
Similar epidemy that Wayne Rooney had when Cristiano Ronaldo moved from sporting lisbon to Manchester United. See, nobody can stop hardworking and passionate poeple.  
I'm happy all of us know that we are smart, hard working, and could make all our dreams. 
